# (U) MHS Leverages XKS for QUANTUM Against Yahoo and Hotmail 

## TOP SECRET/(SI/REL TO USA FVEY

(TSI/SI/REL) MHS Leverages XKEYSCORE Deep.Dive Packet Analysis to Identify Feasibility of QUANTUM Against Yahoo and Hotmail
(TSI/SI/REL) Automated deep packet analysis of Yahoo and Hotmail providers gives keen insight into the potential success of QUANTUMTHEORY exploitation against these services
(TSI/SI/REL) QUANTUMTHEORY is a set of CNO man-on-the-side capabilities that involves real-time packet inject in response to passive collection of target communications. QUANTUMTHEORY inspects each packet, one at a time, for a set of keywords that determine if the packet originated from a CNE target and if a modified response to that packet might result in exploitation of the client computer. Because each packet is inspected individually, if keywords occur across packet boundaries the QUANTUMTHEORY technique will not tip the SIGINT system to attempt exploitation of a client. As HTTP headers and the size of cookies grows, the likelihood of all keywords occurring within a single packet reduces. MHS analysts, in collaboration with XKEYSCORE and the ROC, productized DRAGGABLEKITTEN, an XKEYSCORE Map/Reduce analytic that leverages the packets collected and made accessible to analytics by XKEYSCORE DEEPDIVE systems. DRAGGABLEKITTEN identifies the QUANTUMTHEORY keywords in a packet capture and generates statistics for each service (currently Hotmail and Yahoo) to determine how often all of the keywords occur within a single packet. This would not have been possible without XKEYSCORE providing a platform for analysis to mass-deploy packet-level processing. Approximately 50\% of Hotmail and 50\% of Yahoo sessions contain the keywords necessary within a single packet to be targeted by QUANTUMTHEORY.
Collaboration: (U/FOUO) www.cbs.ind. Access Operations Division, TAO/ROC Name related XKEYSCORE R1
POC: (U/FOUO) name related INDEX Division, MHS phone number related
